Perth Stadium is already the most exciting Test venue in Australia thanks to its lively pitch which offers a fantastic balance between bat and ball.
Just two years into its young life, Perth’s new cricket headquarters has surpassed the Gabba and Adelaide Oval as the best Test surface in the country.
That is a great mix. Far too often in recent years, Australia’s Test pitches have been lopsided, heavily favouring batsmen.
Mitchell Starc and Pat Cummins have been frightening at times on this surface, while India’s four-pronged pace attack had the home batsmen ducking and weaving last summer.
Pat Cummins of Australia. (AAP Image/Scott Barbour)
Virat was appointed the vice-captain for the 2012 Asia Cup in Bangladesh on the back of his fine performance in Australia
Watching the likes of Curtly Ambrose, Shoaib Akhtar, Brett Lee, Wasim Akram and Allan Donald cutting loose at the WACA count among my favourite memories as a kid growing up in Perth.
Australian express quick Mitchell Johnson retired after that Test, and it was dead pitches like that which likely convinced him to quit, according to his long-time teammate Ryan Harris.
India tour the right time to start limited-overs refresh
The Boxing Day Test is overrated
Virat captained India Under-19s to victory at the 2008 Under-19 World Cup in Malaysia, and a few months later, made his ODI debut for India against Sri Lanka at the age of 19
Sydney Sixers vs Perth Scorchers: BBL cricket live scores, blog
Cutting says Heat will keep swinging for the fences despite loss
Ferguson gives BBL timeouts a tick despite fan unrest
Never before have I seen New Zealand legends Kane Williamson and Ross Taylor look as rattled as they were against Starc in the night session on day two.
Virat was appointed the vice-captain of the ODI team in 2012 and handed over the Test captaincy following Mahendra Singh Dhoni's Test retirement in 2014
I’m already salivating at the prospect of seeing dynamic Indian quicks Jasprit Bumrah, Mohammad Shami and Ishant Sharma peppering Steve Smith and David Warner with short stuff next summer.
Virat has been the recipient of many awards such as the Sir Garfield Sobers Trophy (ICC Cricketer of the Year) in 2017 and 2018
They face a stiff task to remain anywhere near as threatening on the MCG and SCG decks as they did in Perth.
They, too, benefited from the pace in the pitch, as well as the variable bounce as the match progressed.
This is one attractive attribute of the Perth surface – the way it changes significantly over the course of a Test.
Too many Australian pitches in recent years have altered only slightly in behaviour as a Test wears on. While significant variations in bounce should not occur on the first two days of a Test, from then on this unpredictability makes play more interesting, as long as conditions remain safe.
This helps to keep accurate medium pacers in the contest – the same types of bowlers who get slaughtered on pitches like the MCG and SCG where batsmen can hit through the ball with complete confidence. Then there’s the spinners.
Nathan Lyon must be a massive fan of the Perth Stadium pitch already. In two Tests there he has had a huge impact, taking 14 wickets at 15. In his other seven home Tests these past two summers Lyon has taken just 24 wickets at 40, underlining how much better he has fared in Perth.
Virat first played for Delhi Under-15 team in October 2002 in the 2002–03 Polly Umrigar Trophy. He was the leading run-getter for his team in that tournament with 172 runs at an average of 34.40
Lyon was getting nice turn and bounce from his first over against NZ. So the Perth Stadium pitch supports good spinners, is brilliant for the speedsters, keeps the less dynamic pacemen in the game, and yet still gives batsmen a chance, particularly in the first half of Tests.
